


INSTALLATION

There are three directories in this package:

Vibra:       Contains the sources of the codes
Docs:        Contains a user guide of the VIBRA package
Examples:    Contains several examples of input and output files



There are two programs included in this package (in Vibra directory):

* fcbuild.f
  Builds the supercell, in FDF format, to be read by your Forces
  program (typically, SIESTA)

* vibra.f 
  Reads the force constants matrix, calculated by your Forces program
  (typically SIESTA), and computes the phonon spectrum.

Makefile will generate the executables for both programs.
Use make if you wish to compile both codes. 
Use make fcbuild if you only wish to compile fcbuild
Use make vibra if you only wish to compile vibra

The Makefile is prepared to work in several architectures and operating
systems, with a minimum of tuning required from the user.  The following
options are defined in Vibra/Sys directory:

         linux.make     (for Linux systems),
         osf.make       (for DEC alphas), 
         osfdxml.make   (for DEC alphas with the dxml math library), 
         ibm.make       (for IBM RISC), 
         ibmessl.make   (for IBM RISC with the ESSL math library), 
         freebsd.make   (for FreeBSD), 
         sgi.make       (for SGI) 
         cray.make      (for Cray machines).
         hp.make        (for HP-UX).
         unknown.make   (for the most general options and codes).

If none of these fit your needs, you will have to build one by your own. 
Once you have decided which *.make you want to use, you just need to define 
an environment variable in your shell; for instance, for Linux:

within sh, ksh or bash:
    $ ARCH=linux ; export ARCH 

within csh:
    $ setenv ARCH linux 

Usually it is better to define these variables in your .login, .profile or 
.cshrc, so that they are defined whenever you log in. 
Then, just compile using the make utility, as usual.


Please send bug reports and comments to ordejon@condmat01.geol.uniovi.es




